United States has submitted a draft
resolution to the UN Security Council
which appears to call for an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin says the resolution is
linked to the release of captives he
made the comments following a visit to
Saudi Arabia it's part of a wider trip
to the Middle East where blinkin is
holding talks on ending the war on Gaza
the US has previously vetoed attempts at
the security Council to achieve a
ceasefire in Gaza for more on this let's
bring in our diplomatic editor James
spay tell us more first James about
what's in this draft us resolution
that's circulating at the UN well
comments have come from secretary of
state blinkin who's in the region and we
have the resolution that is in New York
let me first tell you what the US
Secretary of State said in an interview
with an Arabic TV channel before he left
Saudi Arabia he's just now arriving in
uh Egypt we're pressing for an immediate
ceasefire tied to the release of the
hostages in fact we've actually put
forward a resolution right now before
the UN Security Council that does call
for an immediate Ceasar tied to the
release of hostages well a couple of
hours ago Al jazer obtained this which
is a copy We Believe of the latest us
resolution I think the language is
important so let me read you the key
point of the resolution it says the
security Council determines the
imperative of an immediate and sustained
ceasefire to protect civilians on all
sides allow for the delivery of
essential humanitarian assistance and
alleviate humanitarian suffering and
towards that end unequivocally supports
ongoing International diplomatic efforts
to secure such a ceasefire in connection
with the release of all the remaining
hostages I think that's important
because normally when you get a
ceasefire and the other ceasefire
resolutions that have come from other
parties other than the US they demand a
Ceasar this one the security Council
deter determines the imperative I.E it
says it's important that there is a
Ceasar it doesn't seem to be demanding
one and it's also linking this Ceasar
directly with the release of the maining
remaining captives being held by Hamas
and other groups in Gaza so it's a
little bit more complicated than the
Secretary of State made it sound in that
TV interview so so what blinkin is
saying is somewhat different to what's
in the draft resolution uh that's
circulating at the UN but this is still
significant all of this given the
previous us vetos at the security
Council on Gaza and I think things are
changing I think things are changing in
two ways one we have those very
important talks in Doha um secretary
blinkin also says he believes the Gap is
being narrowed it may well be that the
US is planning to put this res ution
forward after they've got a deal uh here
in Doha the other thing is that this is
not the only resolution floating around
the security Council uh the elected
members of the security Council the 10
members who aren't permanent that just
sered two years they've had enough
they've got together they've drawn up a
resolution they're close I believe to
putting that one to a vote demanding an
immediate ceasefire with no complication
in the language uh whatsoever uh two of
those permanent uh sorry elected 10
members Japan and South Korea I think a
little bit hesitant because they're very
close us allies and they don't want to
further um antagonize the US and France
is also working on a resolution we
understand it uh and my understanding
also is the US I think is very hesitant
about the idea of yet again given what
they've heard about famine coming to
Gaza what we've heard from the
international court of justice very very
worried that it might have to use its
veto again so I think that's why this us
resolution which has been in the works
for some weeks now now has tougher Lang
language language Israel won't like but
is it language that would force an
immediate ceasefire I think we need to
ask some more questions today while the
secretary of state is in Cairo right
diplomacy then at the UN but also in the
region Cairo the Secretary of State
meeting a number of regional leaders
there and there is hope cautious hope it
would seem about a ceasefire deal being
achieved in the coming days ceasefire
talks the technical talks on the
ceasefire continue they're going ahead
here in Doha but it is both Qatar and
Egypt who've been the key media here and
the Secretary of State in two hours time
is meeting President CeCe uh in Cairo to
get an update I think on the talks and
the regional situation but he's also
going to be meeting during his time in
Ciro with representatives of Egypt
Jordan Saudi Arabia UAE cutter and the
Palestinian Authority so further
meetings I think with all the key
players in the Arab world including the
Palestinian Authority those won't just
talk about the seasar I think they are
also looking at the Palestinian
Authority how that can be uh reorganized
revitalized now it has a new prime
minister and then how you potentially
look at the governance of Gaza after a
war and then this seems a long way off
but trying to get political talks back
on track for that two-state solution
that the US always talks about and
always worth reminding people that
Benjamin Netanyahu and the Israeli
government they don't even agree with
that idea indeed thank you very much
James James SP is our diplomatic editor
let's get the viar from occupied East
Jerusalem in in Imran Khan who's there
for us so Imran this draft resolution
and and the reaction comments from the
US Secretary of State in Saudi Arabia
how's that all likely to go down with
the Israelis will they be paying any
attention well we've spoken to the prime
minister's office they've issued us a
very tur no comment on this we've also
reached out to Benny Gant who's the
former prime minister and a key member
of the war cabinet the same response
from him as well reached out to others
within the government they're likely to
all follow suit this is going to be
certainly an official no comment Day by
the looks of things however they will be
pouring over the language that James was
just uh referencing there they'll be
looking at what this actually means for
them but remember the UN Security
Council the United Nations in general is
treated with disdain by uh the Israelis
they say that this is a organization
that has a lopsided attitude towards
Israel when it comes to Israel since
2015 they say there have been about 140
resolutions against uh Israel and it's
something that they've often dismissed
the Israelis are incredibly good at
ignoring uh United Nations uh
resolutions however this one is going to
be incredibly difficult to ignore given
that it will is coming from their key
Ally right so let's see what happens
officially I think we are going to get a
no comment but people will be talking
about this it's going to be a big
talking point so we'll get further
reaction I think as the day goes on and
what about Hamas sran this draft
resolution also relies on them agreeing
to free hostages will
they well it's all about the language
Hamas will be looking at this they've
made their position incredibly clear
they want a permanent ceasefire this
resolution doesn't call for a poning
ceasefire what it does say is it wants
an immediate ceas fire but the
interesting word there and maybe this
does give some wiggle room is sustained
ceasefire does that mean that every
hostage that is released for every set
of hostages released the ceasefire gets
extended well that's what we saw during
the last ceasefire which Hamas actually
accepted but Hamas have also been very
critical in the past of United Nations
resolutions take a look at the one on
December 22nd that was calling for Aid
coming into Gaza Hamas said it didn't go
far enough so the language for mass is
going to be very key they're going to be
looking at this uh it is likely that
they will reject it given their previous
positions but this idea that it's an
immediate but sustained ceasefire May
well be something that Hamas might And I
stress the word might uh be able to work
with Imran thank you very much for that
that's Imran Khan life for say in
occupied East Jerusalem